.\" Manpage for lintpkg.
.TH man 1 "23 May 2023" "0.9.0" "lintpkg man page"

.SH NAME
lintpkg \- Slackware package linter

.SH SYNOPSIS
lintpkg OPTIONS... [PACKAGE_FILENAME...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lintpkg
is a tool for checking common errors in slackware packages. It can be
used for example to test downloaded packages for common packaging mistakes, or
to check a package you created yourself for things you might have missed. By
default all available checks are performed, but specific checks can be performed
using command line parameters.

.B lintpkg
is heavily based on
.B rpmlint
(https://github.com/rpm-software-management/rpmlint)
and tries to keep compatibility to it where possible in order to make integration
into CI systems that already support rpmlint simple. It does however also try
to keep close to the other pkgtools of slackware.

.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB\-c\fR check_name, \fB\-\-check\fR=check_name
.IP
Run only the specified check. This option may be
given multiple times to specify multiple checks
to run.

.HP
\fB\-C\fR check_dir, \fB\-\-checkdir\fR=check_dir
.IP
Specify path to load checks from.

.HP
\fB\-E\fR extract_dir, \fB\-\-extractdir\fR=extract_dir
.IP
Base directory for extracted temporary files.

.HP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-info\fR
.IP
Display explanations for reported messages.

.HP
\fB\-I\fR messageid, \fB\-\-explain\fR=messageid
.IP
Display explanations for the specified
message identifiers and exit. Multiple
identifiers can be specified by separating
them with commas.

.HP
\fB\-x\fR messageid, \fB\-\-exclude\fR=messageid
.IP
Don't show/count errors for the specified
message identifiers. Multiple identifiers
can be specified by separating them with
commas.

.HP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.IP
Print a usage message briefly summarizing these command-line options
and the bug-reporting address,
then exit.

.HP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.IP
Print out the version of
.B lintpkg
that is being run, then exit.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B lintpkg
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B lintpkg
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info lintpkg
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH BUGS
https://github.com/pprkut/lintpkg/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Heinz Wiesinger (pprkut@slackware.com)
